"The fifth letter of Ken to the Canadians
January 4, 1994

Hola Chicos y Chicas,

Let's start with a description of Christmas in Aniane .

We purchased a two foot tree in a pot from the Intermarché. It cost about 23 dollars but
we thought it was going to be a hard time for the kids not being home. For the first time we
purchased some fresh holly and we decked the halls. As it turned out, since we spend Christmas in
the Cove, it passed very similarly; but Sis 's "Oh's and Gee 's" were missed as the kids opened their
presents. The weather was quite different as well.

Speaking of weather it seems we lucked out in terms of Anne's choice of location. During
October there were devastating floods around the Marseille region, November the flooding was
100 miles west and now in the north around Paris and also in the west region of France. The
flooding has forced evacuation of thousands of families. They say it is the worst flooding in sixty
years. In our region of the country the weather has been excellent. I can count on one hand the
number of rainy days since the middle of November. The temperature still makes its way to 16°
regularly and the sun generally shines.

Getting back to Christmas. Our mass was at nine o'clock Christmas eve and was well
attended. Most people seem to spend it at home as it was very quiet around town. A typical
Christmas dinner should include champagne, duck liver paté, caviar and turkey. At least this is
what our priest described. I don't think we will go to hell but we only made two out of four.

On December 27 we packed the car and drove to Barcelona. We were told it was about a 2
hour drive. Well, either they drive a formula 1 car or a helicopter. It takes a normal person
about 3 and a half hours.

One of the biggest surprises of the trip was going through customs at the border. I've had a
harder time trying to get from Halifax to Dartmouth. We were all ready with our passports and
our cartes de séjour. They just waved us through. From what I expected, it was a welcome
disappointment.

Barcelona is a truly magnificent city. The only way to really see and experience a city
like this would be to spend a month. Not winning a recent lottery has cramped our style. We took
the métro to the shore, strolled along the beaches and the marina close to the Olympic site. The
highlight of our trip would have to be the zoo. We spent a sunny afternoon wandering the 14
hectare facility. It seemed to be ten miles long by the end and Ian made sure we hadn't missed any
animals.

I guess every city has an "Arc de Triomphe". The one in Barcelona is red brick, seems
newer and is very spectacular. I named it the "Arca da Triomphe" and am looking forward to
visiting Italy and finding their "Arco do Triompho." Oops they lost didn’t they?

The beaches in Barcelona are unbelievable. The palm trees on the beach reminded us of
Hawaii. This is a city one should visit when it is warmer although we captured on film three very
brave souls getting ready for a swim. Must be Russian or Canadian.

This sure is a factual letter.

Not much excitement or entertainment so far. Well how about an update on the old W. C.?

At the border between France and Spain we stopped to pick up some Spanish money. While
Anne was in the office I decided to check out the little boys room. Stepping out of the car I was
fortunate to step in some dog droppings. Normally this would really upset a person but off I
trotted to the washroom to clean my shoe. And there it was, the “piece of resistance”. The king of
all urinals.

Picture this. An all white urinal with enamel foot pads even. When you press the flush
button it automatically dispenses so much water, you get your shoes rinsed for free. This must
happen to a lot of border crossers. My wonder has been dashed. Anne tells me this is a number two
machine and you are not supposed to wait around for the free shoe wash. I would love to know how
anyone could do a number 2 in that contraption."


Here's the extracted text from the second image:

Sports.

First of all we should mention “Le Foot” .

You probably all know by now that France was eliminated ,for the second straight time,
from the World Cup this year in the States. Coaches fired, the head of France football association
resigned and three stray cats were offered to the god of “Foot ". Too bad it wasn’t dogs since they
have bigger boom booms. Also when the matches are played in France the crowds we see and expect
to see aren’t there. The only time the stands are packed is during playoffs or inter country play.
Most of the time it looks like the crowd Cleveland Indians get in October.

True Story - We were watching the news a while ago and they were introducing a sports
segment. This is highly irregular unless the French won a world championship in car racing or
dominos but it perked me up and there it was -- one would think it might be about the Super Bowl
or maybe even Le Basket since Jordan retired. No it was the World Championship Jigsaw Puzzle
Competition. WOULD SOMEBODY GET A LIFE !

One sport that is very popular in this region and, I think, in most of western Europe fs “Le
Rugby “. This I have learned to watch and almost enjoy.

Pot Pourri

Since we first arrived I noticed every city and village has a Hôtel de Ville. If your French
is as good as mine you may have wondered why they never tell you what type of hotel it is. How
many stars does it have? Well so you don't make the same mistake as me, this is the townhall.

Every town also has a “Bar des Sports". As far as I can figure, the bar with the most types
of beer in town has the right to this title.

Dress in the Midi. Men -to be in style you must have a shiny jogging suit with a zipper
pocket for your cigs. An extra large top for your wide girth and you must walk witha limp. This
is probably caused by a recent auto or moto mishap. Ladies - eight to eighty, blind, crippled, or
crazy, in vogue are skin tight slacks with wild earthy designs. Whoa Mama!

Anyway, Anne will finish the trip story. Two more letters to go. Maybe next time we will
talk about the ever changing vineyards. I bet that would make you renew your subscription.
Signing off in all our languages,

Happy New Year ie
Bonne Année
Feliz Ano

Ken Crosby and la famille

