---
layout: default
title: Customization
nav_order: 8
---

Hello again from me,

Well, we're off on another adventure. We're going to Venice on the 9th of March. That was one of the places Ian wanted to go when we were first coming over because he wanted to ride in a gondola. I rather like the idea myself. There were going to be a few problems with our going to Venice, Laura doesn't like it when we go to countries where they speak a language she doesn’t know. And strangely enough, neither of them enjoy driving into big cities and getting lost while we try to figure out where the tourist bureau is, I always thought it was the grown-ups who were supposed to worry about those kinds of things. Kids these days have no sense of adventure. I have to admit though that the thought of trying to figure out if we should drive or take the train, how to decide on a hotel, which routes to use if we drove, and where to stay en route because it would definitely be too long a drive, was making me tired. And then miraculously through the mail slot one day came a brochure from a travel agency in Montpellier. They were having a “promotion” on bus tours and, ta-da! (to quote my niece Ellen's latest expression), one of them was to Venice. We get to leave from Gignac on the 9th and we arrive back in Gignac on the 13th. It was the perfect solution to all our worries. We don't have to drive or figure out routes; our hotel is booked for us; it's a French tour so we don't have to worry about Italian; and a ride on a gondola is part of the package. There are tours of the city included with the package, but they've also allowed free time to shop; or if you like, they offer other excursions outside the city that you can arrange once you get there. We've decided we're going to shop. Kenneth’s all excited because he figures he's going to get himself a pair of Italian leather cowboy boots. (Oh boy! say I). Shopping in Italy ought to be a treat. Their unit of currency is the lira and I think there are about a kazillion to the dollar. Actually when I was there 20 years ago (did I really say 20?!) there were over 600 lira to the dollar. The last time we checked the money market in the International Herald Tribune there were almost 1300 lira to the dollar. The Canadian dollar has dropped in value over the years but nothing to compare with that. Maybe we will find some bargains. At any rate, you'll hear all about it in next month's letter. But it won't be half as exciting as stopping to ask directions from someone when neither one of you speaks the other's language.

I had another panic episode last week. We had told the owner of the property in December that we would be vacating the premises at the end of April. So he went ahead and made arrangements to have workmen come in in May to continue his ongoing renovations. We had toyed with the idea of renting a place on a beach for the first week in May, and I had even made some tentative inquiries at a travel agency. But last week we finally said, “No, the heck with it. Let's just go home.” We figure April will be warm enough that we will be able to spend numerous days on the beach in Sète anyway. So with that decision made the next step was to call KLM and change the dates of our flights. We knew we could do this because our travel agent wrote that into our contract when we bought the tickets. (That, plus the long time frame could have accounted for the price.) Anyway I called KLM only to discover that she could get us to Amsterdam no problem on April 30th but all flights from Amsterdam to Halifax were booked from the 18th of April until the end of May. She could put us on a waiting list though!!!! Oh boy, was I depressed. All I could think of was "Now what do we do? We don’t have a place to live!"

Kenneth and I decided that if I called her back and explained our predicament and asked if we could pay extra and get into Executive class she might feel sorry for us and put a little extra effort in. We couldn't cash in the tickets either. Well, I called and gave her the sob story and she told me that she would check to see if we could upgrade our tickets but it would probably be really expensive. I told her it wouldn't be as expensive as staying for a month in the country without a place to live. She agreed and said she'd see what she could do and call me back. Needless to say, the topic of discussion during our walk that day was - Now what do we do? An hour after we arrived home the phone rang and it was the KLM lady to say we were confirmed!! I don't know if it was the sob story or not but I'm sure she's never been as profusely thanked as she was that day. So, we land in Halifax on May 1st at noon 55. (That's the way she phrased it.)

The children, to our surprise, are disappointed to be going home in May. They want to stay and finish the school year. They're both having a really good year at school both socially and academically. I imagine this will be an experience for them to remember for a long time to come.

Before I sign off I must mention this month’s award winner. From Betty Anne we got a SEVEN page letter!!! And full-size pages too. It's the longest letter either one of us has ever received. I'll say good-bye now. Take care all.

Anne.





